people tell me I'm slow yeah
well you're slow everybody slow
we're all slow for a high
slowpokes Julian here for dnews
if you've ever raced a cheetah
and you're not named Usain Bolt
you probably lost or heck even
if you tried racing against your
cat I bet you still lost from
horses to dogs birds
it seems the entire Animal
Kingdom is faster and stronger
than we are
why well we evolved to fit into
our ecological niche but even
compared to our nearest
relatives the chimpanzees and
bonobos
we are considerably weaker we
weren't always this way
according to Dan Lieberman a
biological anthropologist at
Harvard University are shipped
like ancestor was a power
athlete that was much stronger
and faster than humans but they
had no endurance so we traded
our brawn for bigger brains and
the ability to outrun our prey
in a long-distance hunt when our
ancestors of all from being
mostly tree dwellers to Savannah
walkers
they probably trade strength and
speed for endurance this is
creatively called the endurance
hypothesis
some researchers believe that
humans evolved a unique
predatory style rather than a
fast and furious chase like a
cheetah or vin diesel humans
take the slow and steady wear
down your prey tell it collapses
from exhaustion kind of action
and this takes very specific
types of muscles by comparison
cheetahs have muscles that are
tailored to react quickly so
they can reach top speeds of
around 70 miles per hour but the
trade-off is they get exhausted
quickly they have no endurance
while we can never run that fast
we can run for a long time maybe
longer than any other animal
sure less exciting than a
high-speed chase but incredibly
effective but you're also slow
because you're weak
don't feel bad we all are
comparatively speaking one of
our closest relatives the
chimpanzee is about twice as
strong as a human because
they're arboreal they spend most
of their time in trees
most of their strength is
concentrated in their arms our
ancestors probably had similar
muscle strength to a chimpanzee
around six million years ago
according to a study published
in PLoS ONE the researchers
found that in the few million
years since human beings evolved
dramatically our brains got
bigger specifically in our
prefrontal cortex the part that
deals with long-term goal
planning
they found that the prefrontal
cortex was radically different
in humans than from in
chimpanzees monkeys and Mike
it seemed to have evolved four
times faster than the other
parts of the body and this is
because in part human started to
evolve social structures that
allowed us to say work together
as a team to take down bigger
prey but there is a downside to
a bigger brain a bigger brain
consumes more energy
our brains consume twenty
percent of the energy we use
which is a lot compared to other
animals
so where did the energy come
from maybe from our muscles
the researchers also found our
ancestors muscles changed
rapidly - very rapidly about
eight times faster than the rest
of our body
so researchers believe that to
deal with the energy demands of
a bigger brain our ancestors
evolved smaller muscles to
compensate but more research is
needed now you may think this
contradicts the Darwinian
principles of survival of the
fittest but fit in this context
doesn't mean physical fitness
it means an organism fits and
anish long enough to reproduce
so the genetic lineage survives
and it's not that being a smart
wimp is always better than being
a big dumb ox or vice versa
it's a matter of what's most
beneficial for an organism based
on its environment and
competition if coming down from
the trees and learning to make
fire means one day your
offspring will populate the
globe probably worth giving up
looking like a species of mr.
universes
that's evolution so you can't
outrun a cheetah but you can
definitely out walk it
Julia covers the endurance
hypothesis in more detail right
here
so what's the evidence for this
hypothesis well one is the way
we sweat we evolved to chase our
food in a really hot climate
most animals release excess body
heat by pantic well this might
help your dog cool down on a hot
summer day panting actually gets
in the way of breathing
if you have the option to be
ripped but also conform basic
sentences would you take it
Master keyboard down in the
comments subscribe for more and
i will see you next time on
dnews
yeah